Adding 'incremental_predicates1 information (#2681)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/incremental-models.md

</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersiont="1.4">

### About incremental_predicates

`incremental_predicates` is an advanced use of incremental models, where data volume is large enough to justify additional investments in performance. This config accepts any valid SQL expression, however dbt does not check the syntax. 

For example, this is a pattern we might expect to see on Snowflake:

```yml
models:
  - name: my_incremental_model
    config:
      materialized: incremental
      unique_key: id
      # this will affect how the data is stored on disk, and indexed to limit scans
      cluster_by: ['session_start']  
      incremental_strategy: merge
      # this limits the scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data

>       incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"

Author: ```suggestion
      incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"
      # `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` and `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` are the standard aliases for the target table and temporary table, respectively, during an incremental run using the merge strategy. 
```

</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersiont="1.4">

### About incremental_predicates

`incremental_predicates` is an advanced use of incremental models, where data volume is large enough to justify additional investments in performance. This config accepts any valid SQL expression, however dbt does not check the syntax. 

For example, this is a pattern we might expect to see on Snowflake:

```yml
models:
  - name: my_incremental_model
    config:
      materialized: incremental
      unique_key: id
      # this will affect how the data is stored on disk, and indexed to limit scans
      cluster_by: ['session_start']  
      incremental_strategy: merge
      # this limits the scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data
      incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"
      # `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` and `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` are the standard aliases for the target table and temporary table, respectively, during an incremental run using the merge strategy. 
```

> This will template (in the `dbt.log` file) a `merge` statement like:

Reviewer: Does "template" here mean use a templated merge statement? Not sure this is super clear

```sql
merge into <existing_table> DBT_INTERNAL_DEST
    from <temp_table_with_new_records> DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE
    on
        -- unique key
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.id = DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE.id
        and
        -- custom predicate: limits data scan in the "old" data / existing table
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)
    when matched then update ...
    when not matched then insert ...
```

> You will still want to limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL. This is to limit the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL, which limits the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed.
```

> You will still want to limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL. This is to limit the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed

Author: @runleonarun, how does it read like this (just removing ambiguity in the directions):
```suggestion
Limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL, which will limit the amount of "new" data processed/transformed.
```

Reviewer: @matthewshaver much clearer!

```sql
with large_source_table as (

    select * from {{ ref('large_source_table') }}
    {% if is_incremental() %}
        where session_start > dateadd(day, -3, current_date)
    {% endif %}

),

...
```

:::info

> The syntax used will depend on how your `incremental_strategy` is configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax depends on how you configure your `incremental_strategy`:
```

- If using the `merge` strategy, you may need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data). 

> - There's a decent amount of conceptual overlap with the `insert_overwrite` incremental strategy.

Reviewer: What do they need to do here? Watch out for overlap? Make sure to remove any overlap introduced by the `insert_overwrite` incremental strategy?

</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersiont="1.4">

> ### About incremental_predicates

Reviewer 2: i think it's meant to be an h3 but wanted to double check if this part of the `incremental_strategy` header or a separate thing?

```suggestion
### About incremental_predicates
```

Author: It's a separate piece, thanks for noticing that!

`incremental_predicates` is an advanced use of incremental models, where data volume is large enough to justify additional investments in performance. This config accepts any valid SQL expression, however dbt does not check the syntax. 

For example, this is a pattern we might expect to see on Snowflake:

```yml
models:
  - name: my_incremental_model
    config:
      materialized: incremental
      unique_key: id

>       cluster_by: ['session_start']  # this will affect how the data is stored on disk, and indexed to limit scans

Reviewer 2: moving comment above per style guide and for consistency

```suggestion
      # this will affect how the data is stored on disk, and indexed to limit scans
      cluster_by: ['session_start']  
```

      incremental_strategy: merge

>       # limit scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      # this limits the scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data
```

>       incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"

Reviewer 2: will the user understand that they need to use DBT_INTERNAL_DEST`  or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE`? or is this brand new specifications? i might have missed this but what do they mean?

Reviewer 3: This is worth a call out! The decision was made to allow for users to write _any_ sql they want, and not over engineer to make sure we guess correctly on the table aliases. 

`DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` and `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` are the standard aliases for the target table and temporary table, respectively, during the course of an incremental run using the merge strategy. 

I think a warning callout that since these predicates will be applied to the merge statement, you may need to use these aliases!

```

> This will template a `merge` statement like:

Reviewer 2: where will this template a merge statement? not sure if i understand where the user will see the code below?

Author: Good question, let me check with the SME's on this

Reviewer 3: This would be visible in the `dbt.log` file only (and their warehouse query history) -- this is currently true of incremental models generally. the compiled code in the `target` directory will contain the SQL that creates the `temp_table_with_new_records`

```sql
merge into <existing_table> DBT_INTERNAL_DEST
    from <temp_table_with_new_records> DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE
    on
        -- unique key
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.id = DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE.id
        and
        -- custom predicate: limits data scan in the "old" data / existing table
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)
    when matched then update ...
    when not matched then insert ...
```

> You will still want to limit data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL, to limit the amount of "new" data being processed / transformed:

Reviewer 2: suggesting splitting into two sentences and switching to active voice

```suggestion
You will still want to limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL. This is to limit the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed
```

```sql
with large_source_table as (

    select * from {{ ref('large_source_table') }}
    {% if is_incremental() %}
        where session_start > dateadd(day, -3, current_date)
    {% endif %}

),

...
```

:::info

> - You do need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Reviewer 2: for consistency with the 2nd bullet. 

```suggestion
- You don't need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).
```

</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersiont="1.4">

### About incremental_predicates

`incremental_predicates` is an advanced use of incremental models, where data volume is large enough to justify additional investments in performance. This config accepts any valid SQL expression, however dbt does not check the syntax. 

For example, this is a pattern we might expect to see on Snowflake:

```yml
models:
  - name: my_incremental_model
    config:
      materialized: incremental
      unique_key: id
      # this will affect how the data is stored on disk, and indexed to limit scans
      cluster_by: ['session_start']  
      incremental_strategy: merge
      # this limits the scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data
      incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"
```

> This will template a `merge` statement like:

Author: ```suggestion
This will template (in the `dbt.log` file) a `merge` statement like:
```

Author: @mirnawong1 how does this look to you?

Reviewer 2: that's def clearer, thanks @matthewshaver !

```sql
merge into <existing_table> DBT_INTERNAL_DEST
    from <temp_table_with_new_records> DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE
    on
        -- unique key
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.id = DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE.id
        and
        -- custom predicate: limits data scan in the "old" data / existing table
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)
    when matched then update ...
    when not matched then insert ...
```

You will still want to limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL. This is to limit the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed

```sql
with large_source_table as (

    select * from {{ ref('large_source_table') }}
    {% if is_incremental() %}
        where session_start > dateadd(day, -3, current_date)
    {% endif %}

),

...
```

:::info

> - You need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Author: ```suggestion
The syntax used will depend on how your `incremental_strategy` is configured:
- You might need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).
```

> - You don't need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Reviewer 3: I think you _do_ need this explicit aliasing! otherwise the warehouse will likely error with an `"ambiguous column col_1"` message

> - You don't need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Author: ```suggestion
- You need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).
```

      cluster_by: ['session_start']  
      incremental_strategy: merge
      # this limits the scan of the existing table to the last 7 days of data
      incremental_predicates: "DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)"
```

This will template a `merge` statement like:
```sql
merge into <existing_table> DBT_INTERNAL_DEST
    from <temp_table_with_new_records> DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE
    on
        -- unique key
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.id = DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE.id
        and
        -- custom predicate: limits data scan in the "old" data / existing table
        DBT_INTERNAL_DEST.session_start > datediff(day, -7, current_date)
    when matched then update ...
    when not matched then insert ...
```

You will still want to limit the data scan of _upstream_ tables within the body of their incremental model SQL. This is to limit the amount of "new" data that's processed/transformed

```sql
with large_source_table as (

    select * from {{ ref('large_source_table') }}
    {% if is_incremental() %}
        where session_start > dateadd(day, -3, current_date)
    {% endif %}

),

...
```

:::info

> The syntax used will depend on how your `incremental_strategy` is configured:

Author: @dave-connors-3 how does this read after suggested changes?

Reviewer 3: just suggested a super minor edit, feel free to diregard

Author: Thank you!

> - You might need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If using the `merge` strategy, you may need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data). 
```

```

:::info

> - You need to explicitly alias any columns with either `DBT_INTERNAL_DEST` ("old" data) or `DBT_INTERNAL_SOURCE` ("new" data).

Reviewer 3: I may have misled you slightly -- I think saying you _may_ need this prefixes is the most correct way to describe it!

when using this feature with the `merge` strategy, you'll need to use the prefixes. This feature will also work with `delete+insert`, which does not use those table prefixes, so you don't need to use them

Reviewer 4: I think we should make the target audience clear (in not exactly these words): This is an intermediate/advanced feature, primarily intended for performance tuning. If you're using this feature, we take you to be someone who's inspected the compiled SQL produced by your incremental model, who understands your database's optimizer pretty well, and you know exactly the bit of SQL that needs adding in exactly this spot.

---

I left this comment before actually reading the PR. I think you did a nice job of this above! So this callout can be, to Dave's point, that the exact syntax here will depend on your configured `incremental_strategy`. As the maintainers of dbt, we've aimed for flexibility over ergonomics, because the intended users of this feature are people who know what they're doing and _need_ that flexibility.
